what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose we're
continuing the MMI series today you guys
have been really enjoying the videos and
finding them useful so I'm coming more
questions if you don't know who I am my
name is Nasir I'm a second year medical
student at King's College London and I
make these youtube videos to help you
guys through the application process if
you guys want to follow me on Instagram
you can get a deeper look into my
day-to-day life and what it is that I do
at medical school if not that's cool
just watch the video and let's just jump
straight into it so the question that I
want to tackle today is what is your
biggest strength and what is your
biggest weakness again a common MMI
question that comes up over and over
again in these interviews it might be
phrased something along the lines of
what is something that will make you a
good doctor and what is something that
might hold you back so that's something
saying you know why is one of your
biggest strengths and was one of your
biggest weakness is how you want to
tackle this question I guess let's split
this video up into two parts let's talk
about the strength question and then the
weakness question and we can tackle them
both individually so let's start with
what is your biggest strength this is
maybe the easier one you want to be able
to choose something and talk about
something that doesn't really have to be
specifically related to medicine it can
be about what makes you unique what
makes you a good person what makes you
good at what you do something that would
make you a value to the community at
their University and a valuable doctor
in society what you actually choose
doesn't really really matter anything
that you talk about about you is going
to be fine but you want to make sure
that you back it up with scenarios you
back it up with examples so you can show
why it is that you're saying you're good
at whatever it is you're saying you're
good at so when you're answering this
question you want to really quickly
shortly summarize what is it that you're
good at for example you want to say one
of my biggest strengths is that I'm very
good at teaching I'm very good at
teaching other people that needs to be
the shortest part of your answer you
don't want to go on long about that you
just want to say what is they good at
and then spend the rest of the time
talking about your experiences and your
value and how you did those things that
you said so that should be the shortest
part of your answer you want to spend
the rest of the time talking about
examples of how you showed you were a
good teacher for example this is
something that I talked about and I
talked about in my previous uni
organising little tutorial like sessions
with students from the lectures that we
could go over a different material each
week and I would learn the material
prepare some PowerPoint slides and teach
that material to other students on
University and now
a great way for me to learn the material
myself but also a way to teach others so
like I said whatever the strengths that
you choose is it doesn't really matter
it's all about the story that you tell
how you back it up and remember that's
what's gonna make you unique to the
interviewer if you tell them an
experience or an activity that you did
that's really interesting they're gonna
remember you they're gonna remember your
face they're gonna remember your story
it's gonna make them more likely to give
you a higher score or remember you when
they're discussing you as a potential
candidate I've talked about this many
times on the channel but you want to be
using the star technique or the star
method we're supposed about describing
the situation first it should be really
a small part of your answer then you
move on to talk about the task what it
is that you were doing how it went above
a block and then the biggest part of
your answer the juiciest most meaty part
should be about the action what actions
did you take what did you actually do
how did you do it how did you get
through it and then you want to talk
about the art and star for result so
what happened how did this improve
something how did this make something
better where did you go from there how
are you gonna change moving forward
things like that so some of the common
things that students will say is their
biggest strengths is something like
communication leadership or management
and I mean those are fine they are going
to be some of the more common answers
given and they are fine like I said
again if you have something to back it
up with examples activities etc but you
might want to be giving something a
little bit more unique a little bit more
personal if you can and I'm sure you
guys have a lot of experiences a lot of
extracurricular activities where you've
demonstrated skills that are necessary
for becoming a doctor and you can talk
about those they might be a little bit
more interesting for example you can
talk about your ability to empathize and
that will have come across in your work
experiences whatever you did whether it
was working at a volunteer home or
shadowing a doctor in a hospital
anything like that you'll be able to
talk about your empathy skills you can
also talk about your ability to listen
of course something else extremely
important in medicine you can talk about
your ability to be very meticulous very
detail-oriented picking up on facts and
things that are changing in your
environment very well anything really
just try and find something unique that
you can talk about it's gonna go a
really really really long way if you say
something unique in an interview and
back it up with examples now the more
tricky part of this question is if
you're asked to talk about a weakness
nobody likes talking about a weakness no
one finds this question easy and it
definitely takes some preparing to get
used to talking about and knowing what
it is that you want to
say and in fact when you're answering
the question I think that's something
important to say you can say I
acknowledge that I definitely have some
weaknesses and I've been trying to work
on them in the past and I'm currently
working on them to improve Who I am as a
person one of those weaknesses is blah
blah or my biggest weakness is bubble
box you want to acknowledge the
difficulty of having the weakness or
knowledge that you have a weakness and
talking about how you're improving it
what you're doing to change how you're
moving forward these are all really
important things it all falls under the
umbrella of reflection which is
something super important in medicine
and yeah make sure you can acknowledge
that you have weaknesses you're not a
perfect person and you're working on
them to improve now when it comes to
choosing the weakness that you're gonna
talk about it obviously can't be
something that's central to the role of
a doctor for example you can say my
biggest weakness is communicating my
biggest weakness is talking to people
who I don't know my biggest weakness is
being able to remember a lot of facts
sorry definitely not weaknesses that you
want to have if you're entering the
field of medicine you want to choose a
weakness that is a true and legitimate
weakness not something like I work way
too hard or I'm Way too focused
I'm way too driven motivated trying to
make this money you want to make sure
that you say a true weakness okay not
something that's like a fake weakness
twisted as a strength so yeah find
something that isn't central to the role
of a doctor for example socialization
skills interpersonal skills you know
being really detail-oriented these are
things that doctors need to have so if
you say that is my biggest weakness it's
probably not gonna come across well so I
think I have a really good way to tackle
this question once you've chosen what
your weakness is I'll give you guys the
example that I used and the example that
I used was public speaking and in fact
till this day I still find public
speaking kind of difficult it still gets
me really nervous public speaking is
definitely not my strongest point but
it's something that I have been working
on a lot in the past and something I'm
continuing to work on to improve so so
how do you answer this question once
you've chosen this weakness let's say
for my example is public speaking you
can say that okay my biggest weakness is
public speaking and how I go about this
is saying something like I realized that
I wasn't so great at public speaking
when for example let's say I had to make
a good announcement in front of my
lecture hall to promote a society or
when I had to present my poster in front
of hundreds of students at
summer fair whatever something like that
when did I realize that I had this
weakness and then I'll go on say
something about how I thought about my
weakness realized how important it is to
not have that weakness and what I'm
doing to change it so for example I
realized I had this weakness in public
speaking I started thinking about you
know in my future I'm gonna be doing
lots of public speaking at conferences
poster fairs as a doctor in the
community promoting health and things
like that and so I definitely wanted to
be able to do public speaking
confidently so what did I do from there
how did I improve my public speaking
when I talked about is putting myself in
positions on purpose that would force me
to improve public speaking it would
force me to do public speaking so for
example in my societies I would
volunteer to go in front of the
classroom and talk to lecture halls
about the society and promote it to
force myself to speak in front of large
groups of people and slowly slowly that
kind of breaks down the buyers and gets
you more and more used to it last year I
also taught second year medical students
some immunology because my previous
degree at the University of Toronto was
an immunology so I had like I prepared a
PowerPoint slide for like a 40 minute
lecture on arthritis and rheumatoid
diseases and I gave that lecture in
front of a group of people and that's
another way for me to practice my public
speaking to get involved in it and just
do it over and over again to eventually
eliminate the fears and anxieties that I
have so that's when you talk about what
it is that you're doing to improve after
that you can reflect on it how has it
gone have you improved at all and of
course I would say something like my
public speaking has improved drastically
since that original time when I noticed
that I had this problem and through my
repeated exposure and putting myself in
these situations I have become a lot
better at public speaking for example
when I went to university in kcl medical
school and I told that immunology
lecture I was way less nervous way less
shy not as shaky and that showed me that
I had really improved focus on how I
brought in an example there's no point
in saying I'm Way better at public
speaking now if you don't say how if you
don't show what you've done to prove it
you have to show examples and giving
examples is the best way for an
interviewer to remember you as a person
to remember who you are
so yeah towards the end of this question
I would talk about how it is that I
improved and also reflecting back so you
know like I've seen this change going
forward I've seen this change over at
the time then you want to talk about the
future so what am I going to do to
continue working on this what am I going
to do
continue improving and you can talk
about you know continuing to work with
societies continue to doing these
community outreach things to try and
promote your public speaking skills so
yeah guys I think that's all I have for
you for the strengths and weaknesses
MMI medicine question if you guys
enjoyed this video please do leave a
like on this video subscribe to the
channel share this channel with all of
your friends if other friends are taking
the MMI interview as well show this
channel to them that's been all help
each other out and hopefully learn
something together I hope you've enjoyed
this video I hope you've learned
something useful and you can use this
prepare yourself for your own medicine
MMI questions you guys have anything you
want to know specifically anything you
want me to do video on let me know in a
comment down below and I will see you
guys in the next one peace